The next thing we're going to do is
we're gonna start with an empty folder.
And we're going to take the steps
I usually take when making
a brand new TypeScript library.
So I'm doing this because
after we set this up,
we're gonna switch over to
our slack workshop project.
But I want you to know there's
nothing up my sleeves.
I want you to understand
how it all fits together.
And this is an opportunity for
us to do it in a simple way so
that you're not left feeling like I
have only shown you the happy path.
So I want you to create
a brand new folder.
We're gonna do this from start to finish,
right?
So I'm gonna create a folder and
let's just call it my lib.
By the way, if you're following along in
the notes, which I highly suggest you
do in this case, given that I have
all of the steps are all the little
changes you have to make to makes it
much easier to copy paste, right?
So this is notes Section 4.
So we're gonna make a directory,
And call it my lib.
You can call it whatever you want and
we're going to enter it.
And then the next thing I'm going to
do is use NPX, NPXGit ignore node.
Raise your hand in the class if
you've used NPX before for something,
even if you don't know what it means,
have you ever used it?
About half a class.
So, what this effectively
does it's a shorthand for
download a package from
NPM called Git ignore and
treat it like it's a CLI package.
This is really most useful with CLI,
right?
NPX, X is for execute.
So that's not what execute starts with but
it works.
And then we're gonna pass
an argument to it the word node.
So if we were to do this with TypeScript,
we could do NPX,
TSC that would invoke TypeScript.
So if it doesn't exist on your system yet,
it will be downloaded on the fly.
And we should see evidence of that.
There it is, we saw that little
progress bar real quick.
Right and it keeps it cached.
So you might see something a little
different than what you're seeing for
me here.
And then it tells me it created
a git ignore file for type node.
Let's see what it looks like.
There's my gitignore.
So this particular library,
it's a great way to create a starting
point gitignore for
a variety of different environment types.
So this has stuff in here for
at some point,
it's got like there's grunt and bower.
And this is obviously for
JavaScript stuff.
There's a Ts build info.
That's something TypeScript spits out.
There's some view stuff in here.
Next, js, the next and nuxt.
There your view things.
So this is just designed to make it so
it works well.
For a bunch of different
JavaScript things,
that you don't really care about
committing to your gitrepo.
Next thing we're gonna do is create
a starting point package JSON.
We can do that with this yarn in it, yes.
So if we didn't do --yes,
it would ask us a bunch of questions and
we're just saying YOLO like go with
whatever you're gonna go with.
And let me open this in a new VS code.
So now I'm out of my slack workshop.
I'm in this new folder I've created.
I've got my package JSON here.
This is what we got by saying --yes.
So Version 1 is the default.
This is the default value here where
MIT of licensing is by default,
it's grabbing my -lib from
the folder name, right?
So it's kinda done all the stuff.
It's inferred as much as it can.
Now we're gonna make a few
changes to this file first.
I expect the entry point for
this library to be in a folder
I'll create later called dist.
So we'll do this and I'm gonna
include some type information as well.
So we'll tell we'll encode this
information into our package, JSON, right?
So we've got the main entry point.
And then this is, for
consumers of this library where
they can find the type information.
So like VS code will look at
the package JSON for this package,
and it will follow the instructions.
This is like saying here's the map
where you can find my types.
We're going to then add
a couple scripts here and
we'll install the dependencies needed for
these scripts in a moment.
So this is what's necessary
in order to be able to run
things like yarn, build,
yarn, test and so on.
So build, I'm just gonna want it
to run the TypeScript compiler.
That's all we need there.
Dev, which is a live development
environment where a server spins up and
whenever things change, it's rebuilt.
I can look at, like, maybe localhost
1,2,3,4, if I'm building a web app.
So, in this case, because it's
not gonna be a web application,
it'll be just a tiny library.
I'm just gonna say,
I want TypeScript to run, but
I want it to sort of watch for
changes and rebuild whatever I change.
And here's how we can do that.
So I'm gonna say do the stuff
you would do for build, but
I want to run this in watch mode.
So this is now passing additional
arguments to TSC beyond
what would be passed to it for
the build script.
And then finally, this one's important.
Preserve watch output.
So TSC --watch by default will clear
the console whenever you save a file.
And I feel like that is not so
valuable in cases where it maybe you
saw a few errors and you fix a few and
you save and you kind of wanna see
the history of what was spit out before.
Preserved watch output just
means nothing is cleared.
Like just let my terminal
do what it's gonna do.
I don't want my tools to erase
information from my console.
So this is a good time for
us to make sure we install
all of those dependencies
that we will need.
And this I just noticed this not in
the instructions, but it's fine.
We can make it work.
So here's what we're gonna do.
All I need actually let's finish
the script here real quick and then we'll
install those dependencies because it's
gonna let us do that all in one step.
So we have a lint task.
When I run yarn lint,
I want eslint to run.
And I want it to look just lint
whatever's in the source folder.
And I have to tell it that it's to look
at not just js files, but also ts.
By default,
it's just gonna look at JavaScript.
And, obviously,
we're writing TypeScript today.
And then, one last command here test,
and we're gonna use jest for testing.
So I'll save my package JSON.
And now I wanna install some dependencies.
This is not in the notes right now.
So this is where you wanna look
at what I'm doing real quick.
So I'm gonna say yarn, add -D for
development dependency, right.
This is just stuff we need for
our built environment.
We want to install TypeScript.
Eslint and jest.
And it's TypeScript, eslint and jest.
So it's really just those things that
we state that we need, All right.
Last thing, this is for those of you that
have been able to use volta successfully.
I want to pin the version of node and
yarn to the current stable releases.
So that if a new release is cut tomorrow,
I am not sort of taking
that in by accident for
this project and nobody in my team is.
Someone's working with
the beta of no jazz.
I don't want them to be
suffering from weird bugs.
That relate to people
using different nodes.
So here's how we do that
volta pin node yarn.
That's it, and running this, we can see
that this little bit here was added.
So when people check this project out,
if they have Volta
installed on their machine,
they're gonna get node 12,19 and
yarn 1, 22.
By the way,
this isn't the latest stable release.
I think this is the latest LTS.
Which is perfectly fine.
In fact, if you go and look at the node
documentation around versions,
they pretty much say that you should
unless you have a compelling reason,
you should be using the LTS in production.
It's a very good idea to do that.
All right.
We don't really have a Git repo yet.
So this is a good time to
make our first commit.
Well, first we have to do Git init and
then I'll add all this you can
see our node modules is ignored on
the left sidebar here, which is great.
And I'm just gonna call
this initial commit.
And now we have a Git repo and one commit.